Here to introduce their bold
framework, the 6-Pack of Care,
we've got Oxford University's
Audrey Tang and Dr Caroline
Emmer de Albuquerque Green,
give them a round of applause.
Morning everyone.
Welcome to the session on
reimagining AI alignment.
We're Audrey and Caroline,
and Leslie,
thank you so much for already
defining what AI alignment
is all about,
which makes my job easier to
dive straight into our work,
civic AI,
when we talk about
AI alignment,
the narrative often is that it's
very much a thing by design,
something that is all about
the technology and how the
technology works. but Audrey,
your work has been about AI
alignment by process.
You very much believe in the
civic nature of alignment.
Tellus more about that.
Certainly.
So let's first talk about
alignment by outcome.
Which is the default trajectory.
By illustration of a misaligned
system.
A couple years ago in Taiwan.
As well as here.
When you scroll on Facebook
or YouTube,
chances are you see some
celebrity trying to give you
investment advice or
cryptocurrency.
In Taiwan's case.
It's Jensen Huang.
The nvidia CEO, Taiwanese.
If you click,
Jensen actually talks to you.
But of course it's not him,
it's a deepfake clone of
him running on nvidia GPU.
And people lost millions to those fraud
scams.
But why does those social media
algorithms show more scam ads
compared to other small and
medium business ads?
It's because their
recommendation engine is
aligned to an outcome.
Namely to drive the most
click-through and the
most profits.
Mm-hmm. and so even though
it’s working as designed,
it caused tremendous damage.
And so in Taiwan,
what we did is that we built a
steering wheel. we did not say,
you know,
let's stop running
ads or anything.
We just sent 200,000 text
messages from 111,
the trusted number from the
government, saying.
Let's all steer this together.
This is the alignment
by process.
We invite people who are
affected to steer this algorithm
toward what people want.
Okay
so I want to hear a little
bit more about that.
You sent those text messages to
people, and then what happened?
So say you got a text
message asking,
would you like to dedicate,
like a jury duty
along afternoon's time to talk
through this with other people?
And you said yes,
because of course you
have civic muscle,
and you will get compensated
for your time.
So thousands of people
volunteered.
And then we chose randomly
447 people,
a mirror of our population,
to have the same demographics
as the wider public.
Then in tables of 10,
each person looking at 9 other
people on the screen.
People started having
conversation.
A civic AI system is like a
glorified chess clock
with manners.
Make sure that people
who are quiet get to speak up.
People can disrupt each other,
but not for more than 5 seconds.
It shows summary,
it shows transcript,
and it also measure.
For each table,
what is the uncommon grounds,
the rarely discovered common
ground that can leave everybody
slightly happier and nobody very
unhappy in that table.
So each table has a civic AI
system that reports the
consensus of the table.
For example, one table says,
if we display any ad
on social media,
let's always label it probably
scam, like a cigarette label,
until somebody like Jensen can
digitally sign and become
accountable.
Then we take it off.
It's a good idea.
Another table said.
For an unsigned ad that we did
not subscribe, unsolicited,
somebody lost $7 million
from the ad, well,
the social media platform should
be liable for the $7
million damage.
That's another good idea.
Joint liability. the third one,
at the time.
Some foreign media systems do
not have Taiwan office.
What if they ignore our
liability rules? well.
This table say,
for every day they ignore us,
let's slow down connection to
their short video by 1%.
Another very good idea.
And so none of this are content
censorship, but we were able,
at the end of long afternoon,
put it to vote.
And more than 85%
of people said.
"it's avery good idea." and the
other 15 are like, "okay
we can live with it.” and then
it became law in just 2 months.
So throughout last year,
there's just almost no deepfake
ads anymore in Taiwan.
It’s down by more than 94%.
Wow. so, so this story,
the first time I heard it,
I thought that's really amazing.
I just really want to go back to
the people and how you
engage with them.
So you send text messages
to people, right?
Which seems to be something
very accessible because,
so my background is I work with
people in caregiving.
So I work a lot with people
who live in care homes,
who work in home care agencies,
family caregivers who, you know,
in the middle of the night face
something really difficult
and often for them,
technology is something
that can really help,
but it's also, you know,
an issue of,
there's issue of fear,
there's some issues around
accessibility.
So it seems like a text message
is something really easy for
people to work with,
but tell me a little bit
more about that.
Is this really a solution to
make sure that we bridge the
gaps between those people
who are, you know,
not normally heard.
They're not normally
around the table?
I think that's a really
important point
because had we required
like physically showing up at
a town hall for example
that will actually rule out a
lot of people who don't have the
mobility or the extra
time for it.
But because we made sure that
even on a small phone.
You can participate in this
deliberative polling process,
and it doesn't require anything
other than an SMS number,
and we compensate for your time
if you need to buy a headphone
or something.
So we tried
our best to close that gap
that you just mentioned,
the care gap.
And the other part, of course.
Is that even if just one person
who are relatively shy,
but the other 9 people
very outspoken,
the civic AI system,
that's a glorified chess
clock with manners,
make sure that nobody stay quiet
just because they don't have the
experience of speaking up.
They would get a direct message.
— ukea
small nudge and also
make sure that they have
dedicated time for
their expression.
Okay, so, and again,
just staying with that example,
what struck me too is that
Taiwan
very strong civic infrastructure
that makes this possible, right?
So you were,
and here we're talking
in our work,
which we'll introduce to you a
little bit further down the
line called civic AI,
we're working with
philosopher's,
political theorist's framework
called an ethics of care.
And she's called Joan tronto,
who came up with a definition of
what care as a practice
actually means.
In the political sphere
and the civic sphere,
we have now adopted this
framework to help us think
through what civic
AI really means.
And one of the first steps to a
good care practice is
to be attentive.
So here in your example,
you know,
you were attentive to that need.
Yes.
Then what's the next step to
actually make it work?
Yes, we put that into law.
So the MPS, of course,
have to deliberate.
This
because it's an upgraded poll.
We can also show the MPS,
all three parties,
none of which have a majority
in the parliament
that this is the very basic
things that people want.
You can add on top of that.
But the overtime window.
The policy window.
Has really shifted.
Because the MPS can really see
that regardless of
where they live.
Whether they're practitioner or
whether they're victims of
fraud and so on,
everybody considered this
as proportional.
That is attentiveness by having
the people who are affected
setting the agenda instead of me
as the minister at the time
or the MPS to set agenda.
That, I think,
the main difference between this
alignment by outcome which is
just one abstract number,
versus by process,
which is a care loop.
Let's talk about scalability.
So, you know,
last week we're with
a group of people.
And we spoke about civic AI too.
And someone said,
oh well. these are great
examples from Taiwan,
but you know,
here in our society,
would people really want to
engage all the time with
important policy issues
orsoon? i
let's talk about scalability.
Is this something that you see
we can really roll out?
Yes, definitely
and in two different levels.
One is on an entire city level
or municipal level. for example,
a couple years ago,
there's a young science fiction
writer and AI engineer in Japan,
Takahiro Anno.
Who read the book we co-wrote.
Plurality, it's public domain,
and decided to run for governor
in Tokyo. he's just 33,
and nobody have heard of him,
and no party support. he's like,
"my platform is going to be
broad listening.” using exactly
the same open-source technology,
he asked everyone to Tokyo
to crowdsource his platform.
He is also a vtuber,
so he livestreams 24/7 on
youTube as an avatar.
You can just call him or
a digital doppelganger,
but then the real Anno actually
becomes accountable to people's
crowdsourced platform.
Independently,
his platform on the eve of
election was ranked the best.
Of course, he didn't win.
He got more than 2% of the vote.
But koike-san won
the reelection.
Koike-san tapped Anno to run the
Tokyo
That gave him national
visibility. now.
He is a member of the upper
house, a senator in Japan.
And the lower house.
Congresspeople,
is 11 people from his party
the future party, team Mirai.
To use this kind of method to
build this intergenerational
pact.
We have already seen it really
work on a national level,
in the even larger than Taiwan
polity in Japan,
but also work in family as well.
Just a very quick example.
A couple of months ago.
My dad has some health issues,
and he finds himself talking
to chatgpt much more.
And often past midnight.
Chatgpt would suggest fantastic
cures that are not really
scientific just to
keep him talking.
Because he's a longtime
journalist.
Avery senior editor,
he immediately headlined this
saying that chatgpt is only
loyal to earn the next
subscription from me and not
loyal to our family's
relational health.
With my parents’ constant,
my younger brother,
bastian,
and I built a small system on a
mac just for our family
signal chat.
No other person can reach this,
what we call a kami,
a knowledge artefact management
intelligence.
This kami really only have
one reward function,
alignment by process set
by mum initially,
that says every time my
dad talk to this kami,
it should reduce his reliance on
the screen and increase his
peace of mind so he can find my
mom next door being more
vivid than a screen.
I worked beautifully.
So after a couple months,
my dad did get the surgery and
is now fully restored to
this shared reality.
So my point being that alignment
by process doesn't just
work in civic scale,
but also work in your field,
in family and home care
and aging care.
Thank you. absolutely.
And I think what strikes me
here is that, you know,
you're building this as
part of your family,
but not to replace your family,
right? you're part of that,
and there's part of care that
you cannot replace
through an AI,
but it can really help you
in a powerful way,
and in a way that's really
aligned with your family values,
and, you know,
in a space where you know
he's also protected,
right? —
exactly,
because it works with no
internet connection,
except for the signal or for
the peer-to-peer chat.
People can't really verify that
none of our data is going to
the cloudy cloud somewhere,
but rather it stays entirely
within this computer. also,
because it's not running in
the cloud and sharing the same
processing as thousands of other
people, it's predictable.
Every time if you enter
the same prompt,
it’s guaranteed to give
you the same output.
Then if you don't like where
the output is going,
you can steer it.
Tenzin yangtso here,
we cultivated the first
kami together,
who also helped us drafting
the book we're doing.
The point here is that because
it's so predictable,
and it draws only from
local knowledge.
It has no hallucination
problems.
Yeah
and I can tell you
as an academic,
it’s a wonderful experience to
be writing this book with you
and the Kami. the kami,
which is a completely new
experience. but yeah,
something we can talk
about sometime else.
I want to stick with that idea
and the concept of
the Kami though,
and go into more depth
because that,
the default trajectory at the
moment with AI is that we are
going to have this overpowering
singularity,
this, you know,
super intelligence that's
going to rule our lives.
Mm-hmm. and we have very little
control over it. mm-hmm.
But what you have described here
with these very small,
specific systems,
that is something very
different. talk us through,
you know, what's the, like,
some of the key characteristics
of that Kami that makes it
different to the default
trajectory?
Yes, by this point,
there should be a presentation
up there,
but somehow it's not here.
So you have to imagine it,
or you can go to civic and
look at the same image.
Illustration, the 6-Pack.
Very briefly,
what we have learned from the
philosopher joan tronto is that
care is really a loop.
We talk a little bit about
attentiveness,
how to pay attention to
people's real needs,
and responsibility,
how we can build a system so
that there's an engagement
contract.
The whole point of that coming
with my dad is so that he would
needitless overtime. —
that's the
responsibility, the competence.
The ability to deliver it
without relying on lock-in from
a vendor. thank you. by a cloud
vendor, so that's competence.
Finally, taking responsiveness.
Whenever there's a new
need that rises up
instead of being locked into
the previous trajectory,
it keeps all the memories,
all the interactions, and so on,
but you can steer it directly
without waiting for the next
version of the cloud model
which, by the way,
doesn't always work better than
the previous version. rather,
you can simply say
"oh. these are the kind of good
outcomes we want to see." and
then within a minute or so,
it just steers itself,
called directional steering.
And then add to that,
we also need to, like.
Not being tied to a Mac Mini,
we can switch to a,
I don't know,
Nvidia
that when we want to switch it,
it's not locked into
anything. so that's solidarity,
because all the different
hardware and software vendors
cannot just lock people into a
vertically integrated solution.
Yeah. it needs to be open.
And finally,
the idea of symbiosis.
So each kami system
do not overreach.
It doesn't build dependence
and soon.”
So if there's another
group of people.
Instead of just enlarging the
domain of the previous kami,
we just train a new kami.
Okay
so I want to stick with that
concept of care that's built
within the idea of civic AI
here, and that whole care loop.
Because what we're seeing is
that the concept of care is
actually being used and adopted
by a lot of those very big tech
companies. oh, here we are.
We'll go back to this in
a minute. yeah, please.
So the first four is a care
loop, as you were saying.
Yes, exactly.
So you'll be able to find that
on our website. that is,
you know,
the precursor of our book.
Everything put into these
beautiful designs. but yeah,
let's go back to the concept
of care, because you know,
we're seeing that being,
ast said, —
adopted by some of the big tech
companies that we're now
creating caring ais.
But there's such a difference
between care as a performance.
90, you know, whether the,
por example,
large language model might be
sounding caring and care
as actual practice.
Which also takes, you know.
Lot of work.
And that's also why Joan tronto
calls it a practice because you
actually have to put
something into it.
And an important part of it is
the responsibility factor here.
As well as the responsiveness,
so that someone actually says.
Well, I've seen there's a need,
I will do something about it,
and the person that's being
cared for, for example,
can then say well actually
you did something here to help
me. but it wasn't good care.
And you need to change
something.
So that's what this care loop
and the Kami idea is also really
trying to capture, right?
Yes,
I think what it's trying to
capture is a different
relationship to our personal
data, our human interaction.
Because previously,
in the gloud age,
people think of data as oil,
right? —
so we're just the planktons,
and our interactions being
extracted somewhere to aggregate
into a distillery, refinery,
something,
and then become plastic,
essentially.
But what is lost there,
exactly as you said,
is that if people are like, "oh,
it shouldn't work this way,"
sometimes it's already too late.
We become like a human
in the loop of AI,
like a hamster in
a hamster wheel.
Laughter] we have to keep
running in order to keep up
but there's no steering
of the hamster wheel.
I think what we're doing here in
Oxford
We call it data as soil.
Not as oil.
Instead of being extracted,
upward.
We tend the garden,
till the garden,
regenerate the data.
Because the data is never
extracted out anywhere else.
It 1s the commie that safeguards
the relational health.
If we do need to transact with
the outside world to improve.
For example.
Prediction for health
matters and so on.
The commie negotiates the
privacy boundaries.
So it's not for each individual
to get doxxed or anything
like that.
So I think this is a much better
arrangement than the extractive
relationship
because people can put AI in the
loop of existing communities
instead of human in
the loop of AI.
So it's a beautiful idea.
We also know it works.
The technology is there,
the examples are here,
but it doesn't seem like
“the world works.
Align, in line with civic AI.
And often when we talk to
groups, will get that pushback,
right? they'll say, well,
-youknow,
how are people going to make
money out of that?
How is that going to become more
powerful than the big tech
companies and what they're
pushing, putting out there?
Where do you see the
future going?
How can we have more civic AI?
Well,
I think one big part of this
is just the awareness.
Which is why we are here
in South by Southwest.
That the fact that there
exists such ideas,
and you can easily practice
yourself. for example,
even if you're still
using chatgpt,
you can invite your friends into
a group chat in chatgpt where it
behaves completely differently.
It becomes aware of the group
dynamic and restores the group
dynamic, the health,
instead of sycophantic.
Or if you're using Claude
or Gemini or something.
You can change the one line
of your system prompt
the personality, and says,
"please present me multiple
perspectives from my communities
in an interactive webpage,"
immediately it loses this
synthetic intimacy.
It doesn't try to be
your best friend,
and you get back a brochure that
you can really share
with your neighbor,
your real human neighbor.
Instead of this overly personal
conversation transcript that
we will be, you know.
Too ashamed to share.
So there are some very simple
tweaks that people can really
do. you really just try
all my screens are grayscale,
so you can use color filter
to keep only 20% color.
That means the reality around us
become more vivid than
the screens,
so we can all sleep better
and scroll less.
With that peace of mind,
then we can entertain better
interaction patterns with
machines, essentially.
You're also working on a, uh
that a venture, social venture?
Uh, from Oxford,
so would you like to talk a
little bit of how that idea,
this care loop.
Apply to the field of work?
Yeah, absolutely. yeah,
thanks for mentioning that.
So I'm working on something
called dedicate,
which is a platform t0 support
family caregivers in their
everyday lives to navigate all
these major life changes,
those practical issues that,
that, that they're experiencing.
And so we are working with
family caregivers,
the same way, you know.
That you have just described,
really trying to understand what
their pain points actually are,
and then seeing on how tech can
work for them. however,
we feel that what's most
important to people is actually
the collective around them.
Is their interdependence,
that there are actually
organizations.
Individuals out there
who can help them,
but the problem is to find these
people and to find the answers
and the support in the times
when they need it the most,
and they're already
stretched.
So that's our starting point,
is the collective.
Is the people around
them who can help.
And then we use tech and we
try that out, and AI to,
to actually support people
to meet each other,
rather than trying to replace,
you know, the human support.
Right,
90 it becomes just a connective
tissue to we the people,
who are already the
superintelligence.
Absolutely, and you know.
The problem is also people are
very fearful of AI and tech.
They don't trust tech companies.
They feel like, you know.
They're just going to
be extracted from.
They won't be able to get
out of contracts.
They don't know where
their data is going.
And also often, I mean,
including me,
I find it really tricky,
and you saw that last week.
Audrey.
I was trying to build my
own Kami for myself.
I was like, how do I do this?
I still don't.
I don't speak that computer
language that you still need.
Right. —
you really need to
be an appliance.
Yeah, absolutely. so I think,
you know,
there's still a lot of work that
needs to be done in order to
really demogratize technology so
that people can actually
use it without fear,
without having to speak that,
you know.
Really be like computer
scientists in order to build
something like that for them.
90 it's a big and really
exciting journey.
So that's for sure.
‘but yeah,
so coming back to our project
I want to talk a little bit
about a trip that we did
together with Tenzin
earlier this year
where we went to dharamsala t0
spend some time with the Tibetan
buddhist community to
learn from them.
And what are you taking
away from that trip?
What did you find the most
interesting, sort of, you know.
Working with that community?
Yeah
so Dalai Lama has endorsed
our previous book,
the plurality.net book. book.
And in the book,
I think it begins with
a quote from him.
And I quote,
"it is under the greatest
adversity that there exists the
greatest potential
for doing good,
both for oneself and others.”
And indeed,
the Tibetan Buddhist community
in dharamsara is facing
a lot of adversity.
Not only is their language
and their culture being
systematically erased in where
they came from. but also,
if you talk to AI models.
It just doesn't speak the
tibetan language, the culture.
The scriptures, and so on.
So they see this enormous
epistemic gap
the gap of the knowledge
they have locally
and also the world's desire to
look at technology in a way that
buddhists have already
comprehended,
but an enormous gap.
Between the two.
What they're doing is that
they're training these very
small systems like a kami
called monlam AI.
It's basically taking
only the scriptures,
dalai Lama's teachings,
and so on into a very
small model.
It doesn't try to fold protein,
fold laundries, do everything,
studio Ghibli images,
or anything.
It just do one thing,
which is to take whatever the
modern science has to offer,
but then interpret it in the
tibetan Buddhist culture.
It works very good.
It's almost perfect actually
when I look at it.
And far less hallucination,
far more grounded than anything
the largest language
model can use.
It also just runs on this very
small. even on a phone.
That's the insight I got,
which is if we know
what we're doing,
then we don't need this thousand
times more energy.
We don't need more.
I don't know, power plants,
data centers, or whatever,
if we know what we're doing so
that we can train such
small systems.
And what did you learn
from the trip?
So we actually got to spend a
lot of time in spaces that
didn't have anything.
Or didn't seem to have anything
to do with technology at all
like a nunnery, for example.
A school that was built for the
local children from some of the
poorest communities there.
And what I learned is, you know,
so often working in AI ethics,
we've now got that question of,
what makes us human in the
age of AI. and for me,
this is a question. I'm like,
well, just look at these spaces,
you know. talk to the people.
Especially the school that was
built by a Tibetan monk who saw
the poverty around him and
wanted to do something about it
and support these children.
So that was really like a
compassionate act manifested.
And, you know,
the way that people are
able to change,
choices,
work around difficult
situations.
The resilience that
we as humans have.
And I think that one also
vulnerability,
but also superpower that we have
as humans is hope. you know.
That even in the worst
of all times,
in the darkest of all times,
we find ways to see a light
and to work towards that.
And I think that's a superpower
to lean into radically
at these times.
Thank you, what gives you hope.
Audrey?
I think the ability for we the
people to already see ourselves
as superintelligence.
That really gives me hope.
More than 10 years ago,
another Oxford philosopher,
nick Bostrom,
wrote about superintelligence,
in which he outlined all the
different ways the takeoff
can go wrong.
The field has been focusing on
how to have a safe takeoff.
I think what gives me hope is
that with people in tibet, —
in Oxford, many places.
We're working on a theory
of asafe landing.
Even if we make the takeoff
go well, where do we land?
I think we should land in our
communities, as the Pope.
Leo 14th, said,
I think last week in
the encyclical,
instead of building a
tower of Babel,
that propose to solve all the
problem for everyone by
monitoring everyone.
We should just rebuild the wall
together, and each community.
Each family,
just focus on the segment very
close to them. then,
instead of solving anything
for a universal scope,
just solve things within
the community.
And then let AI be the
connective tissue between
communities.
That takes me to the
last minute,
and I think it would be good
to do a call for action.
For everyone who's here.
And I would say that,
you know, we've already had
people from around the world who
have contacted us with projects
where they feel aligns with
civic AI and they wanted,
you know,
to get some input from us or
some support or so on.
And I would encourage everyone
to keep on doing that,
to reach out to us and to share
any kind of ideas or projects
that you have where you
feel i feel like this is
aligning with your work.
I thought that was
really beautiful.
But what's your call for
action to everyone?
And if you're interested in what
Takahiro
or the California engaged
California
the future of AI in workplace.
Is doing in California,
which is equivalent.
There's also an equivalent
project just starting
here in the UK.
And that's nationalstrategy.uk.
Great. well,
thanks to everybody
for joining us,
and I hope you have a wonderful
day. thank you, Audrey.
Thank you.
Live long and prosper.